# Attendees

* Mike Ounsworth
* Mike StJohns
* Jean-Pierre Fiset (Crypto4A)
* Olivier Couillard (Optiv)
* Herman Slatman (Smallstep)
* JOHNSON Darren
* AMADOR Eric
* Bruno Couillard
* Chris Trufan
* Christopher Meyer
* Hannes Tschofenig
* Sander Temme
* Michael Richardson
* Tomofumi
* Jethro Beekman
* John Gray


## Absent

Tomas Gustavsson was absent, but sent feedback in advance.

# General Business

General consensus was reached that this work has two phases or deliverables:

Phase 1: A draft to LAMPS for a CSP attributes for carrying generic key attestations. This should be completely format-agnostic and apply to tpm_attest, WebAuthn, existing HSM formats, future formats. We are comfortable using draft-stjohns-csr-attest for this.

Phase 2: Define a key attestation (and maybe platform attestation) statement format that is suitable for HSMs. The main focus is: ASN.1, and carrying HSM-specific (but still vendor-agnostic) attributes like "non-exportable".

We are currently using the tpm_attest terminology quite heavily. Since we are doing this work in IETF, not TCG, we should all (re-)read the RATS Architecture doc (RFC 9334) and shift our terminology and conceptual framework to be in-line.



# Next Steps

- MSJ to finish the ASN.1 module and update draft-stjohns-csr-attest
- MikeO to review it
- All: (re-)read RATS Architecture RFC 9334 and harmonize terminology in draft-stjohns-csr-attest



# Brainstorm about "phase 2"

Discussion about the goals.
We need to be able to prove the state of the device at the time the key attestation was signed. The "state of the device" includes things like firmware version, FIPS mode, maybe some proprietary device-wide configuration. There are three broad ways to prove this:

1. You put the device state into the certificate that signs the attestation (meaning that you need to update these certs every time the device state changes).

2. You have a separate Platform Attestation that is also included in the CSR. You need some sort of correlationID (any kind of incrementing counter will do) that is in both the Platform Attestation and the Key Attestation to show which platform state the device was in at the time the Key Attestation was signed.

3. Freshness nonce. This implies a full round-trip from the CA to the HSM with a CA-generated nonce to be included in both the Platform Attestation and Key Attestation. This option certainly solves the problem, but is overkill. We don't like this option.

