# Attendees

Mike Ounsworth
Bruno Couillard (Crypto4A)
Herman Slatman (Smallstep)
Michael Richardson (MCR)
Chris Trufan
Mike StJohns (MSJ)
JOHNSON Darren
Sander Temme
Tomas Gustavsson
Jethro Beekman
Tomofumi Okubo
John Gray


# Discussion topics

- The CA/B CSBRs do in fact include TPMs, so long as the TPM is FIPS certified. That means that key attestation formats for TPMs are out of scope here (and already a solved problem).
- What if the keys in the attestation chain are stored less securely than the AK and the subject key being attested? For example you could imagine a situation where a partition is in FIPS mode but the overall device root (where the device root attesation key lives) is not.
    - Answer: it seems like this group is happy with an "implicit" proof: if, for example, Entrust trusts that Crypto4A "does things properly", then we're ok to just accept a C4A AK cert at face value and we only need detailed properties in the end attestation statement.
- MSJ has submitted a draft to LAMPS specifying ASN.1 CSR attributes (at the moment this draft is just a placeholder). https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-stjohns-csr-attest-00.html
- MCR proposed that CSRs should carry two objects:
    1. Key attestation -- specific to the key being attested
    2. Platform attestation -- provides an attestation about the device; firmware version, fips mode, etc.
    The separation of concerns serves a few purposes: 1) the AK may not be in a position to make platform-wide attestations, 2) the CA may place the key attestation into the final certificate (maybe not for code signing, but in general there are uses for this), but the platform attestation is likely for the CA's eyes only.
- Bootstrapping HSMs in the field today that don't have attestation keys.
    - We don't have a clear answer on whether HSM vendors will try to "retrofit" AKs into existing devices, or only support in new devices.
    - If we try to retrofit, then somebody -- maybe CPS's or maybe CA/B will need to define acceptable bootstrapping methods in order for those attestations to qualify for code signing certs.


# Next steps

- Decide on a set of (non-proprietary) attributes for a key attestation.
    - MSJ put forward a proposal here: https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/spasm/d0xsQZIBgizetVRaZVULmTkEdlk/
- Decide what "device root-level" (non-proprietary) platform attributes need to be attested at CSR time (ex.: firmware version, fips mode, etc). -- the answer might be "none".
- Given the above, we will arrive at a list of attributes that need to be in the attestation chain certificates
    - MSJ argues that we should try to keep this list empty because it least to complicated verification logic.

