# Attendance

Mike Ounsworth
John Gray
Chris Trufan
Tomas Gustavsson
Hannes Tschofenig
Herman Slatman
Darren Johnson
Jethro Beekman
Tomofumi Okubo
Bruno Couillard



# Feedback on draft-stjohns-csr-attest-02

1. Terminology

- This is a modified version of the TCG TPM attestation terminology.
- The group agreed last time -- and re-affirmed today -- that we want to base this document on the RATS terminology and concepts 
- ACTION: Hannes to re-factor the document to use RATS terminology.

2. Multiple instances of this attribute
We have multiple potential future use-cases for carrying multiple attestations in a single CSR:
- Separate Key Attestations and Platform Attestations, leaving the door open to other types of attestations in the future.
- PQ transition: to support hybrid, we want to be able to put multiple Key Attestations from different chains into a single CSR.

The current draft allows multiple AttestAttribute, but only one AttestCertsAttribute (COUNTS MAX 1). IE Multiple attestations, one cert bag. Maybe that's ok; I don't think we really came to a firm consensus on the call. We think it's worth exploring whether the cert chain should be embedded inside the AttestStatement, or at least a pointer to the cert within the bag à la CMS SignerInfo.SignerIdentifier.

2.1. Even if we decide that ASN.1 in its current form sufficiently allows for multiple attestations, we still need to adjust the text because there are 18 instance of "the attestation", which heavily implies that there is only intended to be one.

- Darren: make sure this CSR attr is extensible enough to handle "long term" uses.
  - We have talked about eventually extending to KeyAttestation and PlatformAttestation, this is another reason to allow multiple Attestations per CSR.
  - Put the cert bundle into the attestation statement.
- Bruno: being able to carry two independent Key Attestations (with independent Attestation Chains) would meet our requirements.



# Phase 2 discussion

If we can iron out what are the "HSM vendor agnostic" set of properties that we would want evidence attributes for, then the statement formats will mostly write themselves.; ex. "FIPS Mode", "Generated here", "imported". "Non-exportable", "Dual control", etc.

Similar attributes have been defined in:
- PKCS11
  - http://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v2.40/os/pkcs11-base-v2.40-os.html
  - CKA attributes
  - http://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v2.40/os/pkcs11-base-v2.40-os.html#_Toc416959719
    For private keys
    It's spread out unfortunately....
- IETF EAT
  - https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-rats-eat-20.html
  - https://pigweed.googlesource.com/open-dice/+/HEAD/docs/specification.md
- Attested TLS
  - Slide 7 in https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/115/materials/slides-115-iotops-attested-tls-00 explains how the nonce is used in the key attestation (KAT) and in the platform attestation (PAT)
- Here is the platform attestation description for Arm (It uses the work from RATS - EAT): https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-tschofenig-rats-psa-token-11.html
- TCG TPM
  
"FIPS Mode" is a weird beast; Is it a certified firmware version? Is it a certified algorithm implementation? Was the device booted in FIPS Mode?
The platform attestation is trying to cover exactly this.

We have two approaches here:
1. Tell everything that we possibly can.
2. Tell things that are useful to the relying party.

MikeO: I am imagining that the generic vender-neutral attributes will address #2, while the opaque proprietary blob contains #1. For example a CA should only need to parse the vendor-neutral properties to decide if this key complies with CA/B BRs, but if the CA has manufacturer-specific policies or you're building some sort of management dashboard then you'll probably want to build parsers for the proprietary blobs.


Freshness / nonce:
In other attestation frameworks (like TLS Attest draft-fossati-tls-attestation) it is natural for the peer to send a nonce and for that to be embedded in both the key attestation (KAT) and platform attestation (PAT). But for CSRs there is not necessarily a round-trip between the CA and the crypto module. Also it is often desirable to re-use the same CSR against multiple CAs. So we need to come with a different definition of "freshness" here.

Mike: I propose that it is sufficient for the key attestation to point to the platform attestation that was active at the time, maybe with a hash of the PAT.
