I know that many of us are attending the NIST NCCoE Migration to Post Quantum meeting today, and that is more important than this design group meeting. In theory they don’t overlap, but if the NIST thing runs late, then consider this meeting cancelled.

Assuming we do get to meet, here is the agenda that I propose:

1. Recap from IETF 117 LAMPS
  - Document was well-received.
  - The call-for-adoption is currently underway: https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/spasm/kQIN95wcqCQsSxDqu_55MLX2qpE/
  - Some minor editorial changes when Hannes or I find some free minutes:
    - Change "attestation" to "edivence" to closer align with RATS terminology.
    - ASN.1 module is a bit broken
      - "ANY" needs to be replaced with an information class, for example
      - ATTRIBUTE OR EXTENSION ASN.1 defn to make it CRMF-friendly
2. Phase 2: "PKIX Attestation Statement" or "HSM Attest" or some similar name.
Let's first agree on what evidence claims want to carry, then after we can discuss the encoding / message format.
As a straw-man to kick-start discussion, I propose the following:

Goal: A vendor-neutral signed evidence format by which Hardware Security Modules can attest to a Certification Authority about both their running state (via a platform attestation) and the private key storage properties of a given key (key attestation).

I propose to base these on the claims in RATS Entity Attestation Tokens (draft-ietf-rats-eat-21); we should borrow the claim names and semantics, though we will probably choose an ASN.1 encoding rather than RATS-EAT's CBOR.

All fields optional.

Platform Attestation Evidence Claims
* atid [uint] -- NEW -- attestation ID; a universally unique identifier for this attestation. Any method for generating these is acceptable so long as the value is strictly increasing. Examples could include a dedicated counter, a boot counter, a system clock that cannot be reset by power failures or administrative action. I believe rats-eat does this with a combination of ueid+bootcount+bootseed, but for the purposes of cross-referencing key attestations to platform attestations, a single attestation ID would be helpful.
* iat (timestamp) [choose-out-favourite-date-format] -- rats-eat-4.3.1 -- if the device has a system clock, might as well throw it in.
* ueid -- rats-eat-4.2.1 -- could be device serial number, or equivalent
* oemid [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.3
* hwmodel [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.4
* hwversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.5
* swname [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.6
* swversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.7
* ? oemboot [bool?] -- rats-eat-4.2.8 -- Note: this gets tricky for HSMs that allow custom firmware into a secure enclave. Should we find a way to note what is loaded into these environments?
* dbgstat (Debug Status) [enum] -- rats-eat-4.2.9 -- values: {Enabled, Disabled, Disabled-Since-Boot, Disabled-Permanently, Disabled-Fully-and-Permanently}
* ? uptime [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.11 -- seconds since last boot. Useful in an HSM context?
* ? bootcount [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.12 -- Useful in an HSM context?
* ? dloas (Digital Lettels of Approval) [?] -- rats-eat-4.2.14 -- ex FIPS or CC certifications. -- Do we really want to carry these in the attestation, or is it sufficient to be able to look up the oemid and hwmodel in the public records?
* ? manifests (Software Manifests) -- rats-eat-4.2.15 -- A manifest of all software components on the device. We probably don't want this?
* ? submods [string] - rats-eat-4.2.18 -- This might be useful to indicate, for example, that this platform attestation was produced at the partition level rather than at the root device level.
* fips_boot [bool] -- NEW -- The cryptographic module was booted in FIPS mode, including the required self-tests.
* fips_level [string] -- NEW -- there must be a naming convention such as "140-2_lvl2"
* cc_level [string] -- NEW -- there must be a naming convention such as "EAL 4+"
* vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.

If any of these values change during operation, the device MUST produce a new attestation.



Key Attestation Evidence Claims
* iat (timestamp) [choose-out-favourite-date-format] -- rats-eat-4.3.1 -- if the device has a system clock, might as well throw it in.
* patid [uint] -- platform attestation id -- the platform attestation that was active at the time this key attestation was created.
  * Note: by referencing a platform attestation, all fields contained in the platform attestation are implied to also be contained in this key attestation with the exception of atid and iat which are specific to that platform attestation.
* keyid [string] -- whatever the platform uses as key identifiers
* pubkey [bytes] -- the public portion of the keypair being attested
* purpose [string] ? -- a description of the purpose of this key
* non-exportable [bool] -- can only be exported in a non-usable form for the purposes of disaster recovery and bound by the same controls that are asserted in this attestation; ie the controls cannot be weakened via a backup & restore procedure.
  Question: has FIPS defined the term "non-exportable"?
* dual-control [bool] -- management operations on this key require the presence of two administrative users.
  Question: has FIPS defined the term "dual-control"?
* fips_mode [bool] -- this key is compliant with FIPS, including that the private key has only been handled by certified modules booted in FIPS mode, and that the key is using a CAVP-certified algorithm.
  Question: has FIPS defined the term "FIPS mode"?



Profiles:
For these to be generically useful for CAs, we will need verification profiles that can be applied to verify compliant with a given purpose (such as CA/B F CSBRs). A profile MUST specify which fields MUST be populated and what values they MUST contain (I believe this aligns with the concept of Reference Value in RATS).

For example, the following verification profile would check compliance with the CA/B F CSBR v3.3 section 6.2.7.3:

1. Both a platform attestation and a key attestation MUST be present and MUST both cryptoglaphically chain to trust anchors of a known HSM manufacturer. Note that they MAY chain to different trust anchors, for example if the manufacturer chooses to use different cryptographic algorithms for platform and key attestation chains.
2. Key Attestation:
  1. patid MUST be present and MUST match the atid of a provided platform attestation.
  2. pubkey MUST be present and MUST match the public key for which a certificate is being requested.
  3. non-exportable MUST be present and MUST be TRUE, as per CA/B F. CSBR v3.3 section 6.2.7.3 #2.a
3. Platform Attestation:
  1. atid MUST be present.
  2. dbgstat MUST be present and MUST NOT be "Enabled".
4. In addition, the HSM MUST either be FIPS or Common Criteria certified. Either:
  1. The Platform Attestation contains fips_boot: TRUE and fips_level: "140-2_lvl2" or higher and the key attestation contains fips_mode: TRUE, or
  2. The Platform Attestation contains cc_level: "EAL 4+".


--- END AGENDA ---