# First group meeting

2023-04-13

## Attendance / intros


(21)
Mike Ounsworth - Entrust
Eric Amador - Thales - Luna HSM PM
Bruno Couillard - C4A
Carl Wallace - Attestation work relative to SCEP, co author on a LAMPS draft that expired, maybe pick it up from Carl.
Chris Trufan - Entrust, public CA
Christopher Meyer - Utimaco, PKI and HSM
Dieter Bong - PM HSMs Utimaco
Tiru Reddy - Nokia, security and privacy. Chair of IETF TEEP WG
Ferenc Peto - CTO I4P -- a qualified signature generation device
Herman Slatman - Smallstep -- open source CA
Jean-Pierre Fiset - C4A
Jethro Beekman - Fortanix
John Gray - Entrust
Darren Johnson - Thales -- HSM architect
Mike Argenius Kushner -- KeyFactor - EJBCA architect
Mike StJohns -- long time IETFer, TPM architect
Richard Kettlewell - Entrust - nShield HSM engineer
Sanader Temme - Fortanix - PM HSM
Thomas Fossati -- ARM / TPM
Tomofumi Okubo - Digicert
Corey Bonnel - Digicert

 

~~~ MikeO's notes ~~~

Design goals
---

Design goals for a key attestation format
1.	From a CA’s perspective, we want a standardized key attestation format that can be placed in a CSR and verified automatically to prove that the subscriber key complies with CA/B F CSBRs.
2.	From an HSM’s perspective, we want a format that’s easy to write an emitter for. Here, by “easy” we mean with minimal code changes from current functionality of the crypto module meaning fast time to a patch and an easy FIPS / CC re-cert.


Bruno: are those design goals sufficient? Should we specifically include PQC? Maybe a 3rd design. No hard-coding of crypto. Support dual signatures / hybrids. You want your attestation chaing to be double-algorithmed.

MikeSJ: I suggest separating debate about the attestation format (debate that now) and defer debate about how to fit that into PKI protocols (CSR, CRMF, X.509, etc).
Keep in mind the domain separation between attestation statement (completely generated within the HSM) vs CSR which is generated outside the HSM and passed in opaquely to be signed.

Tiru: Could we use COSE? It already has formats defined (ex EAT). -- add this to the Agenda list of existing formats.

MikeSJ: WebAuthn, EAT, etc are all carrier wrappers around keyi attestation formats.


What are HSM vendors opinions on staying within what we already support (X.509), or implement a new format (ex.: CBOR, EAT TPM 2.0) ?

Darren J.: I don't see implementing something new and small to be a barrier.

JP: I agree with Darren. But on ASN.1 vs CBOR; we went with ASN.1. I vote new and ASN.1.

Sander: I second what Darren said; something new and small and we have to go through a full re-cert anyway.

Tiru: Attestations can be more general than just attesting keys; like attesting the platform or runtime environment, so we should think of a format that allows for multiple usages.

Richard Kettlewell: ASN.1 is a known format. 

Jethro: ASN.1 vs CBOR: CBOR doesn't have a defined cannonicalized format, so that is an advantage of ASN.1
JP: +1 to this. Ordering of the fields is problematic for integrity checks. CBOR ends up using more memory than ASN.1.

~~~ /end MikeO's notes ~~~


~~~ John's Notes ~~~


 Design Goal of doing this work:
1. CA want a standard Key attestation format in CSR, to be verified automatically to prove the subsribers keys compilies with CA/B Forum.
- CA's don't want to have to imlement dozens of key attestation formats.  
2. Write something that is easy to generate.  Minimal code changes from exisitng firmwares - hopefully not impactng FIPS and CC. 
Bruno - Wondering if these are sufficient design goals?  Need to have crypto agility or PQ awareness
3?. Need to address the future needs of algorithm transitions?  For example, accepting two signatures (old and new).   Hybrids and dual signatures
4. Speed versus flexibility.  

 

Other Notes:

Michael ST John:  Attestation statement is different than the general carrying of attestation statements in PKI and other X509 structures
Jethro - Second design goal is quite subjective - I agree with crypto agility Goal. 
Mike O:  Two is intentionally vague - we used our intuition and expected most crypto modules would have this capability.
Mike St John:  Each statement has its own signature domain.   Different than the guy that is creating the CSR.  Attestation statement needs to stand alone with a chain of trust, regardless of what you do with a CSR.  
Multi-Signature -  Does a single key attestation contain multiple signatures, or multiple key attestations?
Mike St John:  Key attestations are meant to be valid for very short time.  
Bruno - Need to take transition period into account.  An attestation is a guarantee by a device has been generated inside that device.   It should be designed so that
crypto agility is considered.  
KT - Cose already has an attestation format.  RATS group at IETF is already working on standardization claims.  They all use the CBOR format
Carl Wallace - Attestation statement format, and attestation carrier
Darren - We should rely on a decent format - certifications and strategies - We will all have to recertify anyway. Something new an small is not a barrier
JP - Sometimes you want to make something with multiple claims,  in favor of something new that makes use of ASN.1
Sander - something small, will have to go through something small anyway.
KT - validate platform
Richard - ASN.1 preffered, using something we can already use is easier.
ASN.1 vs CBOR - CBOR doesn't have a defined canonicalization format, which is very important when trying to sign data and transform it.   This is the only advantage of ASN.1.
CBOR and ASN.1 - CBOR is good at lots of things, but ordering fields is a problem for integrity.  It is embeddable, it takes a lot of memory, similar to ASN.1
- Rough Consensus - Do not need to stick to existing format.   This will require new certifications.   Seems to be preferance of ASN.1 over CBOR, but if we find something really good in CBOR it would be okay. 
- Corey - Intent of ballent was to get rid of software based 

- Nothing against TPM's for code signing, but maybe not strong agreement 
Action:  Mike O to talk with Bruce Morton to get clarification from CAB 
Carl Wallace - There are other attestation formats we should   

 

Actions:

Action:  Corey/Mike O - go back to CAB forum (Bruce Morton) and get clarification on TPM's in regards to ballot CSE 13.  

Action:  Start email list for further discussion

 

Meet every two weeks

 


~~~ /end John's Notes ~~~



Summary email:


Updated design goals:

1.	From a CA’s perspective, we want a small number of standard key attestation formats to implement -- 1 for TPMs and 1 for HSMs would be fine. There is a weak preference for something simple or with good library support (ie no hand-decoding binary). KeyFactor offered to implement the results of this group and release it open source as part of BouncyCastle.

1a. CA needs to be able to ascertain that the attested key complies with CA/B F CSBRs without needing to parse any proprietary or vender-specific policy attributes. A potential way to handle that is to ask CAB to register a policy OID for this purpose.

2.	From an HSM’s perspective, we want a format that’s easy to write an emitter for. Here, by “easy” we mean with minimal code changes from current functionality of the crypto module meaning fast time to a patch and an easy FIPS / CC re-cert.

3. Agility / flexibility
3a. Crypto agility: don't hard-code or make "mandatory-to-implement" any specific crypto. Allow for dual / hybrid signatures all the way up the key attestation chain. MikeO proposed that "composite" (IETF draft-ounsworth-pq-composite-keys) allows putting multiple keys and signatures into any existing ASN.1-based key or signature field, so we might be able to side-step this in the KA statement design.
3b. Usage flexibility: we should avoid tunnel-visioning on the CA/B requirements, and pick an attestation format that is more flexible to accomodate future expansion. For example the IETF RATS / EAT format allows not only key attesattion but also attestations about the running state of the device.
3c. The HSM vendors expressed rough consensus for ASN.1 over CBOR for the reasons A) ASN.1 is a known entity; ie we know how to work with it and what its shortcomings are, and B) CBOR lacks a canonicalized representation (ie ordering of attributes) which is problematic for handling integrity-protected objects.


Actions:
1. Request that CA/B Forum clarify its position on TPMs with respect to ballot CSC-13 (email to Corey, Bruce, Thomas Gustavson).
2. Start an email thread with meeting summary, updated Design Goals, and start discussion about what existing KA formats might be appropriate
3. turn this into a bi-weekly, but go 2 hours later.


Let's use this thread to propose existing key attestation formats with pros and cons for whether they meet the stated design goals. 

I would primarily like to hear from HSM vendors. 

To MikeSJ's point: let's for now focus on actual attestation statement formats and leave aside carrier protocols such as WebAuthn or CSR / P10 (I admit that I'm guilty of conflating the two since I'm fairly new to this space).
