My notes from Monday's meeting.
Very incomplete.

Moved back to Teams at 12:10

Present:
* Michael Richardson
* Eric Amador
* Chris Trufan
* Hermann Slatman
* Jean-Pierre Fiset
* Jethro Beekman
* Darren Johnson
* K Tirumaleswar Reddy
* Mike St.Johns
* Sander Temme

1. Review of MST's list of things to be signed 2. Key Attributes

* four groups
** where the keys came from: loaded, derived, generated, keyagreement, KDF
** how they are protected
** the usage (and what the HSM enforces)
** persistence/lifetime

3. Source/Creation
Q: is Key Agreement derived keys something that HSMs do already?
    (A: yes from various)

Q: what do all these sources do for the CA?  Do they care?
MST: trying to capture all the ways, even if some of them are not acceptable to the CA.

MST we are not just creating a CABform acceptable attestation, but an attestation format for HSM generated/managed keys.

4. Protection

Discussion about extractable key properties.
The Protection level is really the lowest the key has ever had.

5. Usage Bits.

* Attestation, Signing, Key Agreement, Key Encapsulation, Encryption.
* the HSM might not have any actual policy engine that enforces this.
** but, HSM has no idea if it is code signing Android vs Javascript.
** some HSMs might limit to only signing CSRs, for instance.

Darren: some use cases where data signing vs CSR is relevant.
Sander: very hard for an HSM to make sense about what it is signing.

Encryption includes Decryption.
Added Certificate/CSR Signing.

JP: There might be additional bits that are vendor specific.

Discussion about usage bits vs policy OIDs vs extensions.

6. Persistence/Lifetime

_how long will this key be around?_
Persistent - until user deletes it
Permanent  - but it can be deleted by security officer

The wording difference between persistent / permanent is too close.
Does it mean anything to the relying party?
JB: does someone with permission to sign also have permission to delete?

Query for people who hate this.
    JP: very prescriptive, and how do extensions get done.
    MST: can you describe an extension desired, vs a process?

7. Signing Policies deferred to next time/email.

Next Meeting: 2023-05-08
